#### Data Quality Control (QC) and Missing Data Imputation Techniques for Large-Scale Nonmotorized Continuous Counts

# Abstract
Bicycle and Pedestrian count is useful for monitoring activities trend, infrastructure, and funding decisions. However, sometimes technological malfunction of the counting device impacts the data quality, which may affect the important decision. Few past studies address large-scale data quality and missing data imputation techniques. This study intends to test data quality and impute missing data. A total of 416 bicycle and 282 pedestrian unique continuous counters were considered across California State from 2018 to 2022 to ensure the Monthly Average Daily Bicycle/Pedestrian traffic (MADBT/MADPT) data quality. The qualified MADT was compared with the recent study methodology to ensure the consistency of the outcomes. The research developed 12-fold-12 times repeat Random Forest  (RF) regression model to impute missing month MADT. The results indicate that 26% of pedestrian and 40% of bicycle counters data was disqualified from computing MADT after the quality control test. The qualified data based on our quality control criteria is consistent with the past study. The bicycle imputation RF model test goodness of fit varies from 01.4 to 0.86 from January to December data imputation, while the pedestrian model goodness of fit ranges from 0.41 to 0.90. Overall, bicycle MADT imputation accuracy is much better than pedestrian. The developed data quality guidelines and missing data imputation techniques will help planners and decision-makers to ensure their count data quality and imputation of missing data if needed.
# Keywords: Quality Control, Continuous Counters, Bicycle, Pedestrian, and Random Forest
